Add quick start page for importing workflows (#5281)
PennyLaneAI/pennylane: doc/introduction/importing_workflows.rst

   :format: html

.. _intro_ref_importing_circuits:

Importing workflows
===================

PennyLane supports importing quantum circuits and operations that were
constructed using another framework. This includes circuits defined using `Qiskit <https://www.ibm.com/quantum/qiskit>`__,
`OpenQASM <https://arxiv.org/abs/1707.03429>`_, and `Quil
<https://docs.rigetti.com/qcs/guides/quil>`_.

.. note::

    To import a quantum circuit defined using a particular framework, you will need to install the
    corresponding PennyLane plugin for that framework. More information about PennyLane plugins is
    available on the `plugins <https://pennylane.ai/plugins.html>`_ page.

Importing quantum circuits
--------------------------

Importing quantum circuits can help you take advantage of PennyLane's various optimization,
visualization, and interoperability features for existing circuits. For example, you can take a
`QuantumCircuit <https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.QuantumCircuit>`__ from
Qiskit, import it into PennyLane, and then apply a `circuit-cutting transform
<https://pennylane.ai/qml/demos/tutorial_quantum_circuit_cutting/>`_ to reduce the number of qubits

> required to implement the circuit. You could also :ref:`compile <intro_ref_compile_circuits>` the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
required to implement the circuit. You could also :ref:`compile <intro_ref_compile_worklfows>` the
```
Would be good to point to the workflows compilation page [here](https://xanaduai-pennylane--5281.com.readthedocs.build/en/5281/introduction/compiling_workflows.html).

Note that the typo in the suggestion is accurate :laughing:

.. code-block:: python

    import pyquil

    pq_program = pyquil.Program()
    pq_program += pyquil.gates.H(0)
    pq_program += pyquil.gates.CNOT(0, 1)

This ``Program`` can be converted into a PennyLane quantum function using the
:func:`~pennylane.from_pyquil` function:

.. code-block:: python

    import pennylane as qml

    pl_qfunc_from_pq = qml.from_pyquil(pq_program)

    @qml.qnode(qml.device("default.qubit"))
    def pl_circuit_from_pq():
        pl_qfunc_from_pq(wires=[0, 1])
        return qml.expval(qml.Y(0)), qml.var(qml.Z(1))

The resulting PennyLane circuit is:

>>> print(qml.draw(pl_circuit_from_pq)())
0: ──H─╭●─┤  <Y>
1: ────╰X─┤  Var[Z]

.. note::

    Quantum circuits expressed in Quil can be imported in a similar way using
    :func:`~pennylane.from_quil`.

Importing quantum operators
---------------------------

As well as circuits, it can be useful to import operators defined in other frameworks into
PennyLane. This can be useful for workflows that involve calculating the expectation value of an
observable. By mapping to PennyLane, we can make the workflow differentiable while maintaining

> access to features like :mod:`grouping <pennylane.pauli>` for hardware-efficient execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
access to features like grouping for hardware-efficient execution.
```
The link I suggested doesn't work :thinking:

<https://docs.rigetti.com/qcs/guides/quil>`_.

.. note::

    To import a quantum circuit defined using a particular framework, you will need to install the
    corresponding PennyLane plugin for that framework. More information about PennyLane plugins is
    available on the `plugins <https://pennylane.ai/plugins.html>`_ page.

Importing quantum circuits
--------------------------

Importing quantum circuits can help you take advantage of PennyLane's various optimization,
visualization, and interoperability features for existing circuits. For example, you can take a
`QuantumCircuit <https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/api/qiskit/qiskit.circuit.QuantumCircuit>`__ from
Qiskit, import it into PennyLane, and then apply a `circuit-cutting transform
<https://pennylane.ai/qml/demos/tutorial_quantum_circuit_cutting/>`_ to reduce the number of qubits
required to implement the circuit. You could also :ref:`compile <intro_ref_compile_circuits>` the
circuit using `Catalyst <https://docs.pennylane.ai/projects/catalyst/en/stable/index.html>`__ or
differentiate and optimize the circuit using :ref:`quantum-specific optimizers <intro_ref_opt>`.

:html:`<div class="summary-table">`

> .. autosummary::

Reviewer 2: For most other tables, I think we have the heading right above it, and the heading is something like "Functions for importing external workflows". This makes it easy to navigate to the reference list from the sidebar as soon as the page loads. 

Should we consider doing that here? We could for example move the table up just above "Importing quantum circuits" and give it its own main header, plus some brief line of text saying "The available functions for importing external workflows are:"

Author: I like that idea! Should we go ahead and do that, @trbromley?

Reviewer: :thinking: I think that's maybe less of an established style in the quickstarts, e.g., I can see the following pages have a similar approach to what we have here already:
- Gradients and training
- Measurements
- Compiling circuits

I don't mind too much but I think it's nicer to read the quickstarts as more of a continuous story than broken up with extra section headings.

Reviewer 3: Note that quickstarts are meant to be a more high level overview than the API docs:

> If the documentation is a map, the quickstarts are the introduction or 'legend'. The goal is to allow readers to navigate the core functionality of PennyLane (circuits, training, operators, measurements, manipulating circuits, etc.).
>
>This is helpful because
>
> - a lot of PennyLane functions are imported top level,
> - for new users familiar with quantum computation, it might not always be clear where corresponding PennyLane constructs live in the module structure, and
> - it allows us to surface *the* important functions/objects you should know, separate from everything else contained in the API section.
>
>When writing a quickstart, try to keep to the following structure:
>
> - **Summary tables**. Always provide an `autosummary` table of important functions/classes/objects
> - **Keep sections short.** Provide a minimal example if necessary, but avoid multiple code blocks/examples.
> - **Do not attempt to provide all usage details and explanation of an objects usage.** Remember, most users will be skimming through the quickstarts, using it as a reference to find their way. Instead, direct the reader to the docstring for more information, graphics, and usage details. In addition, this ensures that detailed usage/information is kept closer to the source code, where developers will remember to maintain it.
>
> And remember to keep in mind the  *Do's and don'ts* above! For example, we should be describing, not explaining.

Author: Sounds like we're sticking with no table headings for now.

.. code-block:: python

    from qiskit import QuantumCircuit

    qk_circuit = QuantumCircuit(2, 1)
    qk_circuit.h(0)
    qk_circuit.cx(0, 1)

We can convert the ``QuantumCircuit`` into a PennyLane :ref:`quantum function <intro_vcirc_qfunc>`
using:

.. code-block:: python

    import pennylane as qml

    pl_qfunc_from_qk = qml.from_qiskit(qk_circuit)

.. note::

    The `PennyLane-Qiskit <https://docs.pennylane.ai/projects/qiskit/en/latest/>`__ plugin must be
    installed to use the :func:`~pennylane.from_qiskit` function.

This quantum function can then be called from inside a QNode to generate a PennyLane circuit:

.. code-block:: python

    @qml.qnode(qml.device("default.qubit"))
    def pl_circuit_from_qk():
        pl_qfunc_from_qk(wires=[0, 1])
        return qml.expval(qml.Y(0)), qml.var(qml.Z(1))

.. note::

    Alternatively, the QNode can be instantiated directly from the Qiskit circuit:

    .. code-block:: python

        measurements = [qml.expval(qml.Y(0)), qml.var(qml.Z(1))]
        pl_qfunc_from_qk = qml.from_qiskit(qk_circuit, measurements=measurements)
        pl_circuit_from_qk = qml.QNode(pl_qfunc_from_qk, qml.device("default.qubit"))

>     Here, the ``measurements`` argument overrides the terminal measurements in the Qiskit circuit.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Here, the ``measurements`` argument overrides any terminal measurements in the Qiskit circuit.
```

    See the :func:`~pennylane.from_qiskit` documentation for more details.

The resulting PennyLane circuit can be executed directly:

>>> pl_circuit_from_qk()
[tensor(0., requires_grad=True), tensor(1., requires_grad=True)]

It can also be visualized using PennyLane's :func:`~pennylane.draw` utility:

>>> print(qml.draw(pl_circuit_from_qk)())
0: ──H─╭●─╭||─┤  <Y>
1: ────╰X─╰||─┤  Var[Z]

OpenQASM
~~~~~~~~

An equivalent quantum circuit can be expressed in OpenQASM 2.0 as follows:

.. code-block:: python

    oq_circuit = (
        """
        OPENQASM 2.0;
        include "qelib1.inc";
        qreg q[2];
        creg c[2];

        h q[0];
        cx q[0], q[1];

>         measure q -> c;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

        """
    )

We can import this circuit into PennyLane using the PennyLane-Qiskit plugin once more:

.. code-block:: python

    import pennylane as qml

    pl_qfunc_from_oq = qml.from_qasm(oq_circuit)

    @qml.qnode(qml.device("default.qubit"))
    def pl_circuit_from_oq():
        pl_qfunc_from_oq(wires=[0, 1])
        return qml.expval(qml.Y(0)), qml.var(qml.Z(1))

The result is as follows:

>>> print(qml.draw(pl_circuit_from_oq)())
0: ──H─╭●──┤↗├─┤  <Y>

> 1: ────╰X──┤↗├─┤  Var[Z]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
0: ──H─╭●──┤  <Y>
1: ────╰X──┤  Var[Z]
```

.. role:: html(raw)
   :format: html

.. _intro_ref_importing_circuits:

> Importing workflows

Reviewer 4: I'd recommend a longer, more explicit title, as the word 'workflow' is quite generic. Perhaps 'Importing workflows from other quantum computing frameworks' or something similar? This would help the page to show up in more relevant web searches.

Reviewer: Decided offline - let's treat the title as a separate question as a longer one can look not so great in the left side bar.

which can be installed using:

.. code-block::

    pip install pennylane-rigetti

We begin with a familiar pyQuil `Program
<https://pyquil-docs.rigetti.com/en/stable/apidocs/pyquil.quil.html#pyquil.quil.Program>`__:

.. code-block:: python

    import pyquil

    pq_program = pyquil.Program()
    pq_program += pyquil.gates.H(0)
    pq_program += pyquil.gates.CNOT(0, 1)

This ``Program`` can be converted into a PennyLane quantum function using the
:func:`~pennylane.from_pyquil` function:

.. code-block:: python

    import pennylane as qml

    pl_qfunc_from_pq = qml.from_pyquil(pq_program)

    @qml.qnode(qml.device("default.qubit"))
    def pl_circuit_from_pq():
        pl_qfunc_from_pq(wires=[0, 1])
        return qml.expval(qml.Y(0)), qml.var(qml.Z(1))

The resulting PennyLane circuit is:

>>> print(qml.draw(pl_circuit_from_pq)())
0: ──H─╭●─┤  <Y>
1: ────╰X─┤  Var[Z]

.. note::

    Quantum circuits expressed in Quil can be imported in a similar way using
    :func:`~pennylane.from_quil`.

Importing quantum operators
---------------------------

Sometimes, it is preferable to import a single operation from a framework instead of an entire

> quantum circuit. This can save you some keystrokes and serve as a helpful crutch for understanding

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
quantum circuit. This can save you some keystrokes and help in understanding
```
